Ar/installfest revisions (#66)
Ada-Developers-Academy/ada-precourse-v2: 00-preparing-for-ada/01-installfest.md

It's important to ensure that everyone has all the right tools, with compatible versions, so we can successfully begin programming along with the Ada curriculum.

Many students will have some set of these tools installed already, but be sure to read through all of these instructions to make sure they are compatible. If any of these instructions are unclear, try asking for help in Slack (after it's been installed).

Note that many of these tools are under regular development, and may have newer versions than are listed here. Generally, any version the same or newer than what is mentioned in the instructions will be fine, but be sure to ask in Slack if there is any uncertainty about the correct versions of the required software.

Follow the steps below, typing any necessary commands into the Terminal application, which can be found in Finder under Applications > Utilities > Terminal.

After finishing, keep an eye on Slack for anyone else asking for help, and share your experiences!

<!-- available callout types: info, success, warning, danger, secondary  -->

### !callout-danger

## A Tale of 2 Macs

> In late 2020, Apple released a new type of Macbook using an in-house designed ARM-based chip called the M1. Prior to this Apple had used Intel x86 CPUs.

Reviewer: Do we know if many students have used M1 macs in the last cohort or 2? When going through Installfest on my work laptop, I immediately had issues with the script that installs most of the tools since installing Homebrew with zsh on M1s places brew in a different location than expected. Homebrew installed, but it wasn't found on path so anything it tried installing with brew failed. The fix is easy (https://apple.stackexchange.com/a/424403), but I don't know how well new student understand how Terminal works to find the solution.

```
$ xcode-select --install
```

### !callout-info

## `$` Indicates the Terminal Prompt

When following instructions that involve typing terminal commands, the prompt is often indicated with a character like `$` or `%`. These characters should _not_ be typed in.

<br>

There are a variety of programs that we'll encounter as developers. Many are run through the terminal, and some present their own prompts. By labelling the commands with a representative prompt, instructions can make it more clear where the command should be entered.

<br>

For now, we should focus on getting used to seeing the prompt character, and being careful not to type it in or copy-pasting it. If we accidentally include the prompt character in the commands we input, an error such as `zsh: command not found: $` will be displayed.

### !end-callout

You will then be prompted to allow it to install.

![Xcode command line tools install](images/confirm-install-command-line-tools-mac-os-x.jpg)

At this point, get some coffee... it may take a while... maybe homebrewed coffee!

### !callout-info

## Xcode Command Line Tools Depend on the OS Version

> Apple releases MacOS updates relatively frequently. It is often necessary to update the Xcode command line tools after an OS update. If `brew` suddenly starts failing after a recent OS update, try running the `xcode-select` command given above again to see if that resolves the issue.

Reviewer 2: Are there other arguments/options students will need to run?

I ran `xcode-select` on my machine and received "xcode-select: error: no command option given".

Author: The text says to run the `xcode-select` command given above, which was `xcode-select --install`. I was intentionally trying to avoid repeating the command here. Do you think we should?

Reviewer 2: Leaving out `--install` in the command feels like a "Gotcha!! You didn't read carefully". 

I feel like there are plenty of places down the road where we can remind students to read carefully, not necessarily when they need to get through the installation stage. 

```suggestion
Apple releases MacOS updates relatively frequently. It is often necessary to update the Xcode command line tools after an OS update. If `brew` suddenly starts failing after a recent OS update, try running the `xcode-select --install` command again to see if that resolves the issue.
```
